moreover the word of the Lord came to
Jeremiah a second time while he was
still shut up in the court of the prison
thus says the Lord who made it the Lord
who formed it to establish it the Lord
is his name called to me and I will
answer you and show you great and mighty
things which you do not know for thus
says the Lord the God of Israel
concerning the houses of this city and
the houses of the kings of Judah which
have been pulled down to fortify against
the siege mounds and the sword they come
to fight with the Chaldeans but only to
fill their places with the dead bodies
of men whom I will slay in my anger and
my fury all for whose wickedness I have
hidden my face from this city behold I
will bring it health and healing I will
heal them and reveal to them the
abundance of peace and truth and I will
cause the captives of Judah and the
captives of Israel to return and will
rebuild those places as at the first
I'm cleanse them from all their iniquity
by which they have sinned against me and
I will pardon all their iniquities by
which they have sinned and by which they
have transgressed against me then it
shall be to me a name of joy a praise
and an honor before all nations of the
earth who shall hear all the good that I
do to them they shall fear and tremble
for all the goodness and all the
prosperity that I provide for it again
there shall be heard in this place of
which you say it is desolate without man
and without beasts in the cities of
Judah in the streets of Jerusalem that
are desolate without man and without
inhabitant and without beasts the voice
of joy in the voice of gladness the
voice of the bridegroom and the voice of
the bride the voice of those who will
say praise the Lord of Hosts for the
Lord is good for his mercy endures
forever and of those who will bring the
sacrifice of praise into the house of
the Lord for I will cause the captives
of the land to return as at the first
says the Lord thus says the Lord of
hosts in this place which is desolate
without man without beasts and in all
its cities there shall again be a
dwelling place of Shepherds causing
their flocks to lie down in the cities
of the mountains in the cities of the
lowland in the cities of the South in
the land of Benjamin in the places
around Jerusalem
and in the cities of Judah the flocks
shall again pass under the hands of him
who counts them says the Lord behold the
days are coming says the Lord that I
will perform that good thing which I
have promised to the house of Israel and
to the house of Judah in those days and
at that time I will cause to grow up to
David a branch of righteousness he shall
execute judgment and righteousness in
the earth in those days Judah will be
saved and Jerusalem will dwell safely
and this is the name by which she will
be called the Lord our righteousness for
thus says the Lord David shall never
lack a man to sit on the throne of the
house of Israel nor shall the priests
the Levites lack a man to offer burnt
offerings before me to Kindle grain
offerings and to sacrifice continually
and the word of the Lord came to
Jeremiah if you can break my covenant
with the day and my covenant with the
night so that there will not be day and
night in their season then my covenant
may also be broken with David my servant
so that he shall not have a son to reign
on his throne and with the Levites the
priests my ministers as the hosts of
heaven cannot be numbered nor the sand
of the sea measured so will I multiply
the descendants of David my servant and
the Levites who minister to me have you
not considered what these people have
spoken
saying the two families which the Lord
has chosen he has also cast them off
thus they have despised my people as if
they should no more be a nation before
them thus says the Lord if my covenant
is not with day and night and if I have
not appointed the ordinances of heaven
and earth then I will cast away the
descendants of Jacob and David my
servant so that I will not take any of
his descendants to be rulers over the
descendants of Abraham Isaac and Jacob
for I will cause their captives to
return and will have mercy on them
you